.. _ref-partnership:

#######################
Partnerships and Grants
#######################

********
Overview
********

Our strategy for establishing partnerships is always evolving, and we will broadly follow these steps in the near term:

1. Fugue Foundation has already started contacting key individuals working for respected effective altruism (EA) nonprofits regarding grants and stable coin denominated donations provided by Fugue Foundation. By better understanding their operations, we are better equipped to contribute value through consulation and help them receive such donations or apply for our grants.
2. We're keeping an eye out for new projects in need of funding aligned with our core mission. For right now, our focus is on 501(c)(3) compliant nonprofits, but as our understanding of the nonprofit space evolves, and how exactly we fit into it, we will branch out.
3. We continue to develop open source projects such as our charitable donation platform, which consists of a decentralizaed application (dApp) and EA application programming interface (API). We hope to eventually solicit valuable feedback from the EA community by showcasing these projects in various stages of development to ensure we're making something that is useful to others. See :ref:`ref-platform`.

==================
Charity Evaluators
==================
.. index:: ! Effective Altruism
.. index:: ! Charity Assessment

*Organizations listed are not official partners. We're just big fans and we include them here to afford insight into our own aspirations.*

Charity assessment is the process of analysis of the "goodness" of a nonprofit organization in financial terms. Historically, charity evaluators have focused on the question of how much of contributed funds are used for the purpose(s) claimed by the charity, while more recently some evaluators have placed an emphasis on the cost effectiveness (or impact) of charities. The Fugue Foundation is presently following those assessments that utilize effective altruism criteria. Organizations such as these are best situated to provide us guidance on the donations and grants we wish to provide. Moreover, publicly available data generated by the following four evaluators has been used for purposes of building out our dApp/API prototype.

* `Give Well <https://www.givewell.org>`_
* `80,000 Hours <https://80000hours.org>`_
* `The Life You Can Save <https://www.thelifeyoucansave.org>`_
* `Animal Charity Evaluators <https://animalcharityevaluators.org>`_

=======================
Nonprofit Organizations
=======================

*Organizations listed are not official partners. We're just big fans and we include them here to afford insight into our own aspirations.*

Charity evaluators and researchers, such as those identified above, are of course working to find the nonprofit organizations that make the greatest impact for good in their respective domains. Here are several organizations identified by these charity evaluators for the effectiveness of their work. Again, publicly available data about these organizations has been used for purposes of building out our dApp/API prototype.

**Global poverty and Well-Being**: *Give Well*

* `Give Directly <https://www.givedirectly.org/>`_
* `Malaria Consortium <https://www.malariaconsortium.org/>`_
* `Against Malaria Foundation <https://www.againstmalaria.com/default.aspx>`_
* `Helen Keller International <https://www.hki.org/>`_
* `Deworm the World Initiative <https://www.evidenceaction.org/#deworm-the-world>`_
* `SCI Foundation <https://schistosomiasiscontrolinitiative.org/>`_
* `Sightsavers <https://www.sightsavers.org/>`_
* `END Fund <https://end.org/>`_

**Helping Women and Girls**: *The Life You Can Save*

* `Fistula Foundation <https://fistulafoundation.org/>`_
* `Living Goods <https://livinggoods.org/>`_
* `Oxfam <https://www.oxfam.org/en>`_
* `Population Services International <https://www.psi.org>`_
* `Village Enterprise <https://villageenterprise.org/>`_

**Global health and COVID-19**: *80,000 Hours*

* `Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security <https://www.centerforhealthsecurity.org/>`_
* `The Gates Foundation COVID-19 Funds <https://www.gatesfoundation.org/philanthropypartners/funds/covid-19>`_
* `The Center for Global Development <https://www.cgdev.org/topics/coronavirus>`_

**Helping Animals**: *Animal Charity Evaluators*

* `Albert Schweitzer Foundation <https://albertschweitzerfoundation.org/>`_
* `Anima International <https://animainternational.org/>`_
* `The Humane League <https://thehumaneleague.org/>`_
* `The Good Food Institute <https://www.gfi.org/>`_

====================
Open Source Projects
====================

All of our code is open source, so in that way anyone is free to participate in our efforts by making a pull request or asking questions on one of our `Github repos <https://github.com/fuguefoundation/ff-api>`_. Below are just a few of the projects within the blockchain and open source communities that have captured our attention and imagination. We encourage you to check them out!

* `Gitcoin <https://gitcoin.co/>`_
* `Colony <https://colony.io/>`_
* `Giveth <https://giveth.io/>`_
* `Alice <https://alice.si/>`_
* `Ethereum Community Fund <https://ecf.network/>`_

******
Grants
******
.. index:: ! Stable coins
.. index:: ! Ethereum

Fugue Foundation is currently offering the following grants to qualified 501(c)(3) compliant effective altruism nonprofits.

* `Ethereum 2.0 Validator Grant <https://blog.fuguefoundation.org/ethereum-2-0-validator-grant/>`_

****************
Privacy and Data
****************
.. index:: ! Blockchain
.. index:: ! Ethereum

* We are not in the data collection business and take privacy seriously. As we grow as a nonprofit organization, the Fugue Foundation looks forward to exploring potential changes within the legal structure of charitable donations with respect to donors and cryptocurrency. Please read our `privacy policy <https://fuguefoundation.org/legal/#privacy>`_ for more information.
* Decentralized blockchains are public ledgers and offer a unique blend of both transparency and privacy. The Fugue Foundation builds on the Ethereum blockchain. Please read our `terms of service <https://fuguefoundation.org/legal/#privacy>`_ associated with the open source technologies we are developing.
* Truth for us, along with the trust that extends from it, is data driven and often comes in a cryptographic form. For example, assertions of identity are supported by a digital signature (non-repudiation), deliverables are confirmed via a hash (data integrity), and charities are chosen to receive donations because an evaluator has rigorously studied their financial records and track record in relation to their real world impact.
